---
layout: post
title: "Monthly Stats: 2024 October — More than 4700 Projects Use Reqnroll!"
canonical_url: https://github.com/orgs/reqnroll/discussions/314
date: 2024-11-04
categories: News
tags: statistics transparency
image: assets/images/2025/stephen-dawson-qwtCeJ5cLYs-unsplash-1024.webp
image_caption: "Photo by Stephen Dawson on Unsplash"
author: gasparnagy
---

We believe transparency is important to build a trustworthy open-source community, so we regularly share our usage and sustainability statistics.

Below are some statistics we found interesting (in parentheses, you can see the figures for the previous month). If you are interested in any other figures, please let us know.

## Featured Topic of the Month

This month, I analyzed our statistical data in more depth to uncover interesting details about how people use Reqnroll. Some of these insights (project count, test execution framework, CI/CD server distribution) will now be included in the stats regularly.

I didn’t find anything particularly surprising, but it’s encouraging to know that there are already **4700 unique .NET projects using Reqnroll**. It’s also interesting to see that most of the projects running on CI/CD pipelines use Azure DevOps Pipelines. The distribution of test execution frameworks (MsTest, NUnit, xUnit) is fairly balanced, but NUnit is the most widely used.

From Visual Studio extension usage, we also gathered statistics about project size. Interestingly, the largest project has over 3000 feature files, while the average is 59. For step definitions, the median is 194, but we observed some extremely large numbers—the highest being over 77,000! This is likely a measurement error.

Based on the stats, it seems that everyone used Reqnroll with C# (and not VB.NET).

## Detailed Statistics for October 2024

### Usage

* Website & Docs* visitors: **1.0K*** (0.9K*)
* Website & Docs* page views: **2.4K*** (2.1K*)
* Top 5 Docs pages: **N/A*** (Migration, Quickstart, Docs Home, Install & Setup, IDE Setup)
* NuGet package downloads (Reqnroll package, last 6 weeks): **348.2K** (319.8K)
* NuGet package downloads compared to SpecFlow NuGet downloads (last 6 weeks): **12%** (11%)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by VS2022 extension: **70.0K** (57.9K)
* Top 3 countries for VS2022 extension usage: **United Kingdom, USA, Netherlands** (United Kingdom, USA, Netherlands)
* Reqnroll projects (.NET projects executed by Reqnroll): **4705** (n/a)
* Reqnroll test executions: **2.21M** (1.49M)

_* The stat collection for the docs site stopped in August, so the numbers only include website stats until the end of October._

### .NET Framework Usage

The list shows the .NET Framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

_Note: In previous stats, we presented the distribution of executions (e.g., the percentage of executions using .NET 8.0)._

1. .NET 8.0: **85%** (n/a)
2. .NET 6.0: **9%** (n/a)
3. .NET 4.8: **4%** (n/a)
4. .NET 7.0: **2%** (n/a)

Only frameworks with usage above 1% are shown.

### Test Execution Framework Usage

The list shows the test execution framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. NUnit: **40%** (n/a)
2. xUnit: **32%** (n/a)
3. MsTest: **28%** (n/a)

### CI/CD Server Usage

The list shows the CI/CD server usage distribution of Reqnroll projects that were executed in CI.

1. Azure Pipelines: **70%** (n/a)
2. GitLab CI/CD: **11%** (n/a)
3. GitHub Actions: **9%** (n/a)
4. Jenkins: **4%** (n/a)
5. TeamCity: **4%** (n/a)

### Sustainability

* Active paid [subscriptions](https://reqnroll.net/support/): **1** (1)
* [Sponsors](https://reqnroll.net/sponsorship/): **Gold: 1 (Spec Solutions), Silver: 1 (Info Support), Supporters: 4** (1/1/4)
* Yearly budget: **~$2200** ($2200)
* My time: **45hrs** (16hrs)
