---
layout: post
title: "Monthly Stats: 2024 November — .NET 9.0 Comes Up!"
canonical_url: https://github.com/orgs/reqnroll/discussions/361
date: 2024-12-19
categories: News
tags: statistics transparency
image: assets/images/2025/stephen-dawson-qwtCeJ5cLYs-unsplash-1024.webp
image_caption: "Photo by Stephen Dawson on Unsplash"
author: gasparnagy
---

We believe transparency is important to build a trustworthy open-source community, so we regularly share our usage and sustainability statistics.

Below are some statistics we found interesting (in parentheses, you can see the figures for the previous month). If you are interested in any other figures, please let us know.

## Featured Topic of the Month

This is the first month when .NET 9.0 gained momentum in our stats, starting with a 6% distribution among projects that use Reqnroll. This means there are more than 350 projects tested with Reqnroll on .NET 9.0. This is definitely important feedback highlighting the necessity of active Reqnroll maintenance. If you would like to contribute, please consider our [sponsorship options](https://reqnroll.net/sponsorship/).

In November, we observed moderate growth across nearly all figures. Between August and October, stats from the docs were not collected. This is the first time we have complete figures since July, and they are in line with expectations: page views have almost doubled.

You might have heard that [Tricentis shut down the SpecFlow GitHub project](https://github.com/orgs/reqnroll/discussions/359). The stats for November do not yet reflect the impact of this on Reqnroll, and December is a special month. Only after January will we see if this incident caused more projects to migrate.

## Detailed Statistics for November 2024

### Usage

* Website & Docs* visitors: **3.4K*** (July*: 2.5K)
* Website & Docs* page views: **24K*** (July*: 14.0K)
* Top 5 Docs pages: **Docs Home, Quickstart, Migration, IDE Setup, Gherkin Reference*** (July*: Migration, Quickstart, Docs Home, Install & Setup, IDE Setup)
* NuGet package downloads (Reqnroll package, last 6 weeks): **369K** (348K)
* NuGet package downloads compared to SpecFlow NuGet downloads (last 6 weeks): **12%** (12%)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by VS2022 extension: **74.4K** (70.0K)
* Top 3 countries of VS2022 extension usage: **United Kingdom, USA, Netherlands** (United Kingdom, USA, Netherlands)
* Reqnroll projects (.NET projects executed by Reqnroll): **5,248** (4,705)
* Reqnroll test executions: **2.16M** (2.21M)
* Reqnroll test executions per project per month: **avg: 412, median: 56** (N/A)

_* Between August and October, stats from the docs were not collected, so the last comparable month is July._

### .NET Framework Usage

The list shows the .NET Framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. .NET 8.0: **82%** (85%)
2. .NET 9.0: **6%** (0%)
3. .NET 6.0: **6%** (9%)
4. .NET 4.8: **4%** (4%)
5. .NET 7.0: **2%** (2%)

Only frameworks with usage above 1% are shown.

### Test Execution Framework Usage

The list shows the test execution framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. NUnit: **40%** (40%)
2. xUnit: **32%** (32%)
3. MsTest: **28%** (28%)

### CI/CD Server Usage

The list shows the CI/CD server usage distribution of Reqnroll projects that were executed in CI.

1. Azure Pipelines: **71%** (70%)
2. GitLab CI/CD: **10%** (11%)
3. GitHub Actions: **9%** (9%)
4. Jenkins: **5%** (4%)
5. TeamCity: **4%** (4%)
6. Atlassian Bamboo: **1%** (0%)

### Sustainability

* Active paid [subscriptions](https://reqnroll.net/support/): **1** (1)
* [Sponsors](https://reqnroll.net/sponsorship/): **Gold: 1 (Spec Solutions), Silver: 1 (Info Support), Supporters: 4** (1/1/4)
* Yearly budget: **~$2200** ($2200)
* My time: **39hrs** (45hrs)
