---
layout: post
title: "Monthly Stats: 2025 May — 20K Reqnroll Visual Studio extension installations"
date: 2025-06-06
categories: News
tags: statistics transparency
image: assets/images/2025/stephen-dawson-qwtCeJ5cLYs-unsplash-1024.webp
image_caption: "Photo by Stephen Dawson on Unsplash"
author: gasparnagy
---

We believe transparency is important to build a trustworthy open-source community, so we regularly share our usage and sustainability statistics.

Below are some statistics we found interesting (in parentheses, you can see the figures for the previous month). If you are interested in any other figures, please let us know.

## Featured Topic of the Month

You may have noticed that I forgot to publish the statistics for April on time. We have had busy months preparing for our next major release, but I will make a separate post about that.

Perhaps the most notable figure in the statistics for May is that the number of Reqnroll Visual Studio extension installations has nearly reached 20K. This represents how many times our latest VS extension has been installed or upgraded. Of course, this may include users who simply "hit & run," but together with the number of Reqnroll projects (16K) we can confidently say that our user base is well above ten thousand. That is a great achievement.

It is also interesting to see that, over the past two months, India and the USA have risen to the top in terms of usage. As I mentioned earlier, this may be a sign that more and more large enterprises are adopting Reqnroll.

## Detailed Statistics for May 2025

### Usage

* Website & Docs visitors: **10K** (10K)
* Website & Docs page views: **61K** (64K)
* Top 5 Docs pages: **Quickstart, Migration, Docs Home, Gherkin reference, IDE Setup** (Migration, Docs Home, Quickstart, IDE Setup, Configuration)
* NuGet package downloads (Reqnroll package, last 6 weeks): **1.02M** (March*: 846K)
* NuGet package downloads compared to SpecFlow NuGet downloads (based on "per day average"): **43%** (March*: 37%)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by VS2022 extension: **315K** (283K)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by Rider extension: **21K** (31K)
* Number of active VS2022 & Rider extension installations: **19.8K, VS: 19.5K, Rider: 0.3K** (15.4K, VS: 15.1K, Rider: 0.3K)
* Upgrades to the latest VS2022 extension: **7610** (7124)
* Top 3 countries (from VS2022 extension usage): **USA, India, United Kingdom** (India, USA, United Kingdom)
* Reqnroll projects (.NET projects executed by Reqnroll): **16K** (14K)
* Reqnroll test executions: **7.4M** (6.1M)
* Reqnroll test executions per project per month: **avg: 428, median: 52** (avg: 388, median: 52)
* Ratio of CI/CD executions: **43%** (43%)

Note: *The stats for April were not captured in time and from NuGet we use the "last 6 weeks" stats.

### .NET Framework Usage

The list shows the .NET Framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. .NET 8.0: **70%** (70%)
2. .NET 9.0: **15%** (14%)
3. .NET 4.8: **9%** (9%)
4. .NET 6.0: **5%** (5%)
5. .NET 7.0: **1%** (1%)

Only frameworks with usage above 1% are shown.

### Test Execution Framework Usage

The list shows the test execution framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. NUnit: **47%** (46%)
2. xUnit: **28%** (29%)
3. MsTest: **25%** (26%)

### CI/CD Server Usage

The list shows the CI/CD server usage distribution of Reqnroll projects that were executed in CI.

1. Azure Pipelines: **67%** (67%)
2. GitHub Actions: **10%** (10%)
3. GitLab CI/CD: **7%** (7%)
4. Jenkins: **6%** (6%)
5. TeamCity: **4%** (4%)
6. Atlassian Bamboo: **3%** (3%)
7. BrowserStack: **2%** (2%)
8. Bitbucket Pipelines: **1%** (1%)

### Sustainability

* Active paid [subscriptions](https://reqnroll.net/support/): **2** (2)
* [Sponsors](https://reqnroll.net/sponsorship/): **Gold: 1 (Spec Solutions), Silver: 1 (Info Support), Supporters: 4** (1/1/4)
* Yearly budget: **~$2200** ($2200)
* My time: **10hrs** (49hrs)

📢 I encourage everyone to invite contributors for a coffee 🍵. That could help pay our hosting bills or even enable us to organize an in-person design workshop to better align our goals (and drink those coffees, of course. Maybe a beer 🍺 too...). [Become a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/reqnroll).