---
layout: post
title: "Monthly Stats: 2025 February — Hello India 🇮🇳, Doubled NuGet Downloads"
canonical_url: https://github.com/orgs/reqnroll/discussions/512
date: 2025-03-04
categories: News
tags: statistics transparency
image: 2025/stephen-dawson-qwtCeJ5cLYs-unsplash-1024.webp
image_caption: "Photo by Stephen Dawson on Unsplash"
author: gasparnagy
---

We believe transparency is important to build a trustworthy open-source community, so we regularly share our usage and sustainability statistics.

Below are some statistics we found interesting (in parentheses, you can see the figures for the previous month). If you are interested in any other figures, please let us know.

## Featured Topic of the Month

We continued measuring the countries using the Visual Studio extension. For a long time, the top 3 countries were the United Kingdom, USA, and the Netherlands. February was the first month where India entered the top 3. So with all our respect to our loyal Dutch users 🙏, I would like to say hello and a big thanks to our users from India 🇮🇳! I think this is yet another positive sign that more enterprise users are joining onboard.

Also worth noting is the incredible increase in our NuGet package usage on nuget.org. The downloads doubled again, and with that, we are now at 30% of the downloads of SpecFlow.  

## Detailed Statistics for February 2025

### Usage

* Website & Docs visitors: **10K** (8.9K)
* Website & Docs page views: **65K** (56K)
* Top 5 Docs pages: **Migration, Docs Home, Quickstart, IDE Setup, Configuration** (Migration, Docs Home, Quickstart, IDE Setup, Install & Setup)
* NuGet package downloads (Reqnroll package, last 6 weeks): **631K** (278K)
* NuGet package downloads compared to SpecFlow NuGet downloads (based on "per day average"): **30%** (13%*)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by VS2022 extension: **172K** (113K)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by Rider extension: **38.8K** (43.8K)
* Number of active VS2022 & Rider extension installations: **10.28K, VS: 9.9K, Rider: 0.38K** (6.74K, VS: 6.28K, Rider: 0.46K)
* Upgrades to the latest VS2022 extension: **4068** (2536)
* Top 3 countries (from VS2022 extension usage): **United Kingdom, USA, India** (United Kingdom, USA, Netherlands)
* Reqnroll projects (.NET projects executed by Reqnroll): **11,341** (8,609)
* Reqnroll test executions: **3.8M** (2.4M)
* Reqnroll test executions per project per month: **avg: 334, median: 49** (avg: 330, median: 48)

(*) So far, the SpecFlow comparison was done by comparing the full download stats of both products over the past 6 years. However, for some reason, these stats for SpecFlow disappeared from NuGet, so we switched to comparing the "per day average" number shown on the package's main page.

### .NET Framework Usage

The list shows the .NET Framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. .NET 8.0: **72%** (76%)
2. .NET 9.0: **13%** (11%)
3. .NET 4.8: **7%** (6%)
4. .NET 6.0: **6%** (6%)
5. .NET 7.0: **1%** (1%)

Only frameworks with usage above 1% are shown.

### Test Execution Framework Usage

The list shows the test execution framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. NUnit: **45%** (42%)
2. xUnit: **29%** (30%)
3. MsTest: **27%** (28%)

### CI/CD Server Usage

The list shows the CI/CD server usage distribution of Reqnroll projects that were executed in CI.

1. Azure Pipelines: **71%** (71%)
2. GitHub Actions: **8%** (8%)
3. GitLab CI/CD: **7%** (8%)
4. Jenkins: **5%** (5%)
5. TeamCity: **4%** (4%)
6. Atlassian Bamboo: **2%** (2%)
7. BrowserStack: **1%** (1%)
8. Octopus Deploy: **1%** (1%)
9. Bitbucket Pipelines: **1%** (0%)

### Sustainability

* Active paid [subscriptions](https://reqnroll.net/support/): **1** (1)
* [Sponsors](https://reqnroll.net/sponsorship/): **Gold: 1 (Spec Solutions), Silver: 1 (Info Support), Supporters: 4** (1/1/4)
* Yearly budget: **~$2200** ($2200)
* My time: **68hrs** (28hrs)

📢 I encourage everyone to invite contributors for a coffee 🍵. This could help us pay our hosting bills or even allow us to organize an in-person design workshop to better align our goals (and drink those coffees, of course. Maybe a beer 🍺 too...). [Become a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/reqnroll).
