---
layout: post
title: "Monthly Stats: 2025 August - First stats about report usage"
date: 2025-09-05
categories: News
tags: statistics transparency
image: assets/images/2025/stephen-dawson-qwtCeJ5cLYs-unsplash-1024.webp
image_caption: "Photo by Stephen Dawson on Unsplash"
author: gasparnagy
---

We believe transparency is important to build a trustworthy open-source community, so we regularly share our usage and sustainability statistics.

Below are some statistics we found interesting (in parentheses, you can see the figures for the previous month). If you are interested in any other figures, please let us know.

## Featured Topic of the Month

We have released the long-awaited [v3 of Reqnroll](2025-08-21-reqnroll-v3-0-released-with-reporting.md) on the 21st of August. Although we have only 10 days of usage statistics from v3, we have already generated more than 5,000 reports!

Note: We have [released v3.0.1](https://github.com/reqnroll/Reqnroll/releases/tag/v3.0.1) today with a few small bug fixes. Please upgrade to v3.0.1.

## Detailed Statistics for August 2025

### Usage

* Website & Docs visitors: **8.1K** (9K)
* Website & Docs page views: **46K** (50K)
* Top 5 Docs pages: **Quickstart, Docs Home, Migration, Gherkin reference, IDE Setup** (Quickstart, Migration, Docs Home, Gherkin reference, IDE Setup)
* NuGet package downloads (Reqnroll package, last 6 weeks): **1.22M** (0.74M)
* NuGet package downloads compared to SpecFlow NuGet downloads (based on "per day average"): **69%** (73%)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by VS2022 extension: **340K** (391K)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by Rider extension: **10K** (11K)
* Number of active VS2022 & Rider extension installations: **N/A*** (N/A*)
* Upgrades to the latest VS2022 extension: **N/A*** (N/A*)
* Top 3 countries (from VS2022 extension usage): **USA, India, United Kingdom** (India, USA, United Kingdom)
* Reqnroll projects (.NET projects executed by Reqnroll): **20K** (20K)
* Reqnroll test executions: **10.1M** (10.2M)
* Reqnroll test executions per project per month: **avg: 497, median: 53** (avg: 515, median: 55)
* Ratio of CI/CD executions: **44%** (43%)

Note: *There was no measurable information of VS extension installations, because the latest version was released more than 3 month ago.

### .NET Framework Usage

The list shows the .NET Framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. .NET 8.0: **70%** (71%)
2. .NET 9.0: **15%** (14%)
3. .NET 4.8: **10%** (9%)
4. .NET 6.0: **4%** (4%)
5. .NET 7.0: **1%** (1%)

Only frameworks with usage above 1% are shown.

### Test Execution Framework Usage

The list shows the test execution framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. NUnit: **46%** (47%)
2. xUnit: **29%** (28%)
3. MsTest: **25%** (25%)
4. TUnit: **0%** (n/a)

### CI/CD Server Usage

The list shows the CI/CD server usage distribution of Reqnroll projects that were executed in CI.

1. Azure Pipelines: **66%** (65%)
2. GitHub Actions: **10%** (10%)
3. GitLab CI/CD: **7%** (8%)
4. Jenkins: **7%** (7%)
5. TeamCity: **5%** (5%)
6. Atlassian Bamboo: **2%** (2%)
7. BrowserStack: **1%** (1%)
8. Octopus Deploy: **1%** (0%)
9. Bitbucket Pipelines: **1%** (1%)
10. GitLab CI: **1%** (0%)

### Formatters

The new reporting infrastructure (called [formatters](https://docs.reqnroll.net/latest/reporting/reqnroll-formatters.html)) has been introduced with the v3 release. There are the first usage stats.

* HTML reports generated: 4.6K / 151 projects
* Message reports generated: 1.1K / 41 projects
* Ratio of projects used formatters: 1%

### Sustainability

* Active paid [subscriptions](https://reqnroll.net/support/): **3** (2)
* [Sponsors](https://reqnroll.net/sponsorship/): **Gold: 1 (Spec Solutions), Silver: 1 (Info Support), Supporters: 4** (1/1/4)
* Yearly budget: **~$2200** ($2200)
* My time: **104hrs** (29hrs)

📢 I encourage everyone to invite contributors for a coffee 🍵. That could help pay our hosting bills or even enable us to organize an in-person design workshop to better align our goals (and drink those coffees, of course. Maybe a beer 🍺 too...). [Become a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/reqnroll).