---
layout: post
title: "Monthly Stats: 2025 June — At 51% of SpecFlow package downloads"
date: 2025-07-08
categories: News
tags: statistics transparency
image: assets/images/2025/stephen-dawson-qwtCeJ5cLYs-unsplash-1024.webp
image_caption: "Photo by Stephen Dawson on Unsplash"
author: gasparnagy
---

We believe transparency is important to build a trustworthy open-source community, so we regularly share our usage and sustainability statistics.

Below are some statistics we found interesting (in parentheses, you can see the figures for the previous month). If you are interested in any other figures, please let us know.

## Featured Topic of the Month

One notable statistic from June is that the six-week NuGet package downloads reached half the number of downloads of SpecFlow. This is especially interesting because the number of SpecFlow NuGet package downloads has not decreased significantly (dropping from 2.9M to 2.4M since last September), so this figure is the result of an increased number of Reqnroll downloads. NuGet package downloads represent the presence of passive usage — a project that is not in active development might still have a CI build that periodically downloads the packages. This could explain the steady number of SpecFlow package downloads. However, if these projects are at least in maintenance mode and we see an increasing number of Reqnroll downloads, this indicates that Reqnroll is not only being adopted by existing SpecFlow projects but also by brand new projects. In other words, a significant portion of Reqnroll usage comes from new projects and not just from SpecFlow migrations.

Another figure worth noting is the decreasing number of Rider extension usages. I don't yet know if this is a real decrease or just a problem with how we collect telemetry data. We still need to figure that out.

## Detailed Statistics for June 2025

### Usage

* Website & Docs visitors: **10K** (10K)
* Website & Docs page views: **57K** (61K)
* Top 5 Docs pages: **Migration, Docs Home, Quickstart, Gherkin reference, IDE Setup** (Quickstart, Migration, Docs Home, Gherkin reference, IDE Setup)
* NuGet package downloads (Reqnroll package, last 6 weeks): **1.22M** (1.02M)
* NuGet package downloads compared to SpecFlow NuGet downloads (based on "per day average"): **51%** (43%)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by VS2022 extension: **343K** (315K)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by Rider extension: **14K** (21K)
* Number of active VS2022 & Rider extension installations: **N/A*** (19.8K, VS: 19.5K, Rider: 0.3K)
* Upgrades to the latest VS2022 extension: **N/A*** (7610)
* Top 3 countries (from VS2022 extension usage): **India, USA, United Kingdom** (USA, India, United Kingdom)
* Reqnroll projects (.NET projects executed by Reqnroll): **18K** (16K)
* Reqnroll test executions: **8.0M** (7.4M)
* Reqnroll test executions per project per month: **avg: 438, median: 55** (avg: 428, median: 52)
* Ratio of CI/CD executions: **44%** (43%)

Note: *There was no measurable information of VS extension installations, because the latest version was released more than 3 month ago.

### .NET Framework Usage

The list shows the .NET Framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. .NET 8.0: **70%** (70%)
2. .NET 9.0: **15%** (15%)
3. .NET 4.8: **9%** (9%)
4. .NET 6.0: **5%** (5%)
5. .NET 7.0: **1%** (1%)

Only frameworks with usage above 1% are shown.

### Test Execution Framework Usage

The list shows the test execution framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. NUnit: **47%** (47%)
2. xUnit: **28%** (28%)
3. MsTest: **25%** (25%)

### CI/CD Server Usage

The list shows the CI/CD server usage distribution of Reqnroll projects that were executed in CI.

1. Azure Pipelines: **67%** (67%)
2. GitHub Actions: **10%** (10%)
3. GitLab CI/CD: **7%** (7%)
4. Jenkins: **6%** (6%)
5. TeamCity: **4%** (4%)
6. Atlassian Bamboo: **3%** (3%)
7. BrowserStack: **1%** (2%)
8. Bitbucket Pipelines: **1%** (1%)

### Sustainability

* Active paid [subscriptions](https://reqnroll.net/support/): **3** (2)
* [Sponsors](https://reqnroll.net/sponsorship/): **Gold: 1 (Spec Solutions), Silver: 1 (Info Support), Supporters: 4** (1/1/4)
* Yearly budget: **~$2200** ($2200)
* My time: **56hrs** (10hrs)

📢 I encourage everyone to invite contributors for a coffee 🍵. That could help pay our hosting bills or even enable us to organize an in-person design workshop to better align our goals (and drink those coffees, of course. Maybe a beer 🍺 too...). [Become a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/reqnroll).