---
layout: post
title: "Monthly Stats: 2025 March — Most Reqnroll Projects Have a Daily CI Build!"
canonical_url: https://github.com/orgs/reqnroll/discussions/558
date: 2025-04-08
categories: News
tags: statistics transparency
image: 2025/stephen-dawson-qwtCeJ5cLYs-unsplash-1024.webp
image_caption: "Photo by Stephen Dawson on Unsplash"
author: gasparnagy
---

We believe transparency is important to build a trustworthy open-source community, so we regularly share our usage and sustainability statistics.

Below are some statistics we found interesting (in parentheses, you can see the figures for the previous month). If you are interested in any other figures, please let us know.

## Featured Topic of the Month

In March, the stats indicate that the user base stabilization phase of Reqnroll has started. We still see constant growth, but (as expected) the era of exponential changes is probably over. The change in the SpecFlow-Reqnroll NuGet package download ratio from 30% to 37% is still significant, showing that projects are continuing to migrate.

There are a couple of figures, though, that have remained fairly stable over the last few months. One of these is the median number of test executions per project, which is consistently around 50. This number shows that an "average" Reqnroll project was executed 50 times in a month. To be precise, it means that half of the projects were run ≤ 50 times and the other half were run ≥ 50 times. The stability of this number shows that many projects fall within this mid-range. Around 40% of the execution runs are on CI/CD pipelines (new stat!), meaning that out of the 50 executions, 20 are on CI/CD. This is almost exactly the number of weekdays in a month! So we can say that most projects have a CI/CD pipeline with at least a daily check. Is this good news? Good question. But if you don't have a CI/CD pipeline, it's definitely time to catch up now!

## Detailed Statistics for March 2025

### Usage

* Website & Docs visitors: **11K** (10K)
* Website & Docs page views: **69K** (65K)
* Top 5 Docs pages: **Migration, Docs Home, Quickstart, IDE Setup, Configuration** (Migration, Docs Home, Quickstart, IDE Setup, Configuration)
* NuGet package downloads (Reqnroll package, last 6 weeks): **846K** (631K)
* NuGet package downloads compared to SpecFlow NuGet downloads (based on "per day average"): **37%** (30%)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by VS2022 extension: **244K** (172K)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by Rider extension: **43K** (38.8K)
* Number of active VS2022 & Rider extension installations: **10.0K, VS: 9.6K, Rider: 0.4K** (10.3K, VS: 9.9K, Rider: 0.4K)
* Upgrades to the latest VS2022 extension: **6118** (4068)
* Top 3 countries (from VS2022 extension usage): **United Kingdom, USA, India** (United Kingdom, USA, India)
* Reqnroll projects (.NET projects executed by Reqnroll): **14K** (11K)
* Reqnroll test executions: **5.4M** (3.8M)
* Reqnroll test executions per project per month: **avg: 381, median: 52** (avg: 334, median: 49)
* Ratio of CI/CD executions: **39%** (40%)

### .NET Framework Usage

The list shows the .NET Framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. .NET 8.0: **70%** (72%)
2. .NET 9.0: **14%** (13%)
3. .NET 4.8: **9%** (7%)
4. .NET 6.0: **6%** (6%)
5. .NET 7.0: **1%** (1%)

Only frameworks with usage above 1% are shown.

### Test Execution Framework Usage

The list shows the test execution framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. NUnit: **46%** (45%)
2. xUnit: **29%** (29%)
3. MsTest: **26%** (27%)

### CI/CD Server Usage

The list shows the CI/CD server usage distribution of Reqnroll projects that were executed in CI.

1. Azure Pipelines: **68%** (71%)
2. GitHub Actions: **8%** (8%)
3. GitLab CI/CD: **7%** (7%)
4. Jenkins: **6%** (5%)
5. TeamCity: **4%** (4%)
6. Atlassian Bamboo: **3%** (2%)
7. BrowserStack: **2%** (1%)
8. Bitbucket Pipelines: **1%** (1%)
9. Octopus Deploy: **1%** (1%)

### Sustainability

* Active paid [subscriptions](https://reqnroll.net/support/): **2** (1)
* [Sponsors](https://reqnroll.net/sponsorship/): **Gold: 1 (Spec Solutions), Silver: 1 (Info Support), Supporters: 4** (1/1/4)
* Yearly budget: **~$2200** ($2200)
* My time: **24hrs** (68hrs)

📢 I encourage everyone to invite contributors for a coffee 🍵. That could help pay our hosting bills or even enable us to organize an in-person design workshop to better align our goals (and drink those coffees, of course. Maybe a beer 🍺 too...). [Become a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/reqnroll).