---
layout: post
title: "Monthly Stats: 2025 January — 2600+ New Projects in a Month, 7K+ Users"
canonical_url: https://github.com/orgs/reqnroll/discussions/430
date: 2025-02-04
categories: News
tags: statistics transparency
image: assets/images/2025/stephen-dawson-qwtCeJ5cLYs-unsplash-1024.webp
image_caption: "Photo by Stephen Dawson on Unsplash"
author: gasparnagy
---

We believe transparency is important to build a trustworthy open-source community, so we regularly share our usage and sustainability statistics.

Below are some statistics we found interesting (in parentheses, you can see the figures for the previous month). If you are interested in any other figures, please let us know.

## Featured Topic of the Month

January was the month when most people learned about [SpecFlow's death](2025-01-09-specflow-end-of-life-has-been-announced.md). As expected, Reqnroll received increased activity.  
The most outstanding change we can see is in the number of unique Reqnroll projects, where we see an increase of 2,677, which is 45% more than in December.

Google Search Console kept informing me during January of more and more records being reached (a few days ago, the "3.5K clicks from Google search in 28 days"). This is also visible in the website and documentation visits, which have doubled again!

Also noticeable is that people are using the Visual Studio extension more actively: users opened Reqnroll projects twice as many times as in December. Considering that people usually keep their projects open for longer periods, the 112K project loads in a month is a huge number. If evenly distributed, it would mean that every single minute in January, more than two Reqnroll projects were opened (2.52 to be precise).

From this month, I added a new statistic that might be useful for estimating the number of active users: how many Visual Studio & Rider installations were active and how many times users upgraded to the latest Visual Studio extension version. The first might correlate with the total Reqnroll user count (excluding VSCode and "notepad" users, though), and the second might correlate with very active users. This month, we had 6,740 active installations (6,284 VS, 456 Rider) and 2,536 upgrades to the latest VS extension. So how many users do we have? It must be around 7-8K.

## Detailed Statistics for January 2025

### Usage

* Website & Docs visitors: **8.9K** (3.9K)
* Website & Docs page views: **56K** (26K)
* Top 5 Docs pages: **Migration, Docs Home, Quickstart, IDE Setup, Install & Setup** (Migration, Quickstart, Docs Home, IDE Setup, Gherkin Reference)
* NuGet package downloads (Reqnroll package, last 6 weeks): **278K** (312K)
* NuGet package downloads compared to SpecFlow NuGet downloads (last 6 weeks): **13%** (12%)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by VS2022 extension: **112.6K** (67.3K)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by Rider extension: **43.8K** (N/A)
* Number of active VS2022 & Rider extension installations: **6.74K, VS: 6.28K, Rider: 0.46K** (N/A)
* Upgrades to the latest VS2022 extension: **2,536** (941)
* Top 3 countries (from VS2022 extension usage): **United Kingdom, USA, Netherlands** (United Kingdom, USA, Netherlands)
* Reqnroll projects (.NET projects executed by Reqnroll): **8,609** (5,932)
* Reqnroll test executions: **2.4M** (2.07M)
* Reqnroll test executions per project per month: **avg: 330, median: 48** (avg: 350, median: 47)

### .NET Framework Usage

The list shows the .NET Framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. .NET 8.0: **76%** (79%)
2. .NET 9.0: **11%** (9%)
3. .NET 4.8: **6%** (5%)
4. .NET 6.0: **6%** (5%)
5. .NET 7.0: **1%** (2%)

Only frameworks with usage above 1% are shown.

### Test Execution Framework Usage

The list shows the test execution framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. NUnit: **42%** (40%)
2. xUnit: **30%** (32%)
3. MsTest: **28%** (28%)

### CI/CD Server Usage

The list shows the CI/CD server usage distribution of Reqnroll projects that were executed in CI.

1. Azure Pipelines: **71%** (71%)
2. GitHub Actions: **8%** (10%)
3. GitLab CI/CD: **8%** (10%)
4. Jenkins: **5%** (5%)
5. TeamCity: **4%** (3%)
6. Atlassian Bamboo: **2%** (1%)
7. BrowserStack: **1%** (1%)
8. Octopus Deploy: **1%** (0%)

### Sustainability

* Active paid [subscriptions](https://reqnroll.net/support/): **1** (1)
* [Sponsors](https://reqnroll.net/sponsorship/): **Gold: 1 (Spec Solutions), Silver: 1 (Info Support), Supporters: 4** (1/1/4)
* Yearly budget: **~$2200** ($2200)
* My time: **28hrs** (19hrs)
