---
layout: post
title: "Monthly Stats: 2024 December — Increased Interest in Migration After SpecFlow GitHub Project Removed"
canonical_url: https://github.com/orgs/reqnroll/discussions/384
date: 2025-01-06
categories: News
tags: statistics transparency
image: 2025/stephen-dawson-qwtCeJ5cLYs-unsplash-1024.webp
image_caption: "Photo by Stephen Dawson on Unsplash"
author: gasparnagy
---

We believe transparency is important to build a trustworthy open-source community, so we regularly share our usage and sustainability statistics.

Below are some statistics we found interesting (in parentheses, you can see the figures for the previous month). If you are interested in any other figures, please let us know.

## Featured Topic of the Month

Many of us expected December to be a calm month for Reqnroll. However, on December 17th, the [SpecFlow open-source project suddenly disappeared from GitHub](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/gasparnagy_github-reqnrollreqnroll-open-source-cucumber-style-activity-7274869345271312384-Avos?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop). This made it clear to many that Tricentis was no longer interested in continuing the project. It is still unknown why they removed the GitHub project without any prior notice (they could have just marked the project as "archived"). A few days later, the project reappeared (without issues) with an [end-of-life announcement](https://support-hub.tricentis.com/open?number=NEW0001432&id=post) scheduled by the end of the year. Indeed, the project [finally disappeared from GitHub on January 1st](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/gasparnagy_my-domain-registration-for-reqnrollnet-has-activity-7280177083673104386-Gw3-?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop).

Not surprisingly, interest in the migration guide surged, and in December, it became the most visited documentation page, with record peaks between December 18-20.

## Detailed Statistics for December 2024

### Usage

* Website & Docs visitors: **3.9K** (3.4K)
* Website & Docs page views: **26K** (24K)
* Top 5 Docs pages: **Migration, Quickstart, Docs Home, IDE Setup, Gherkin Reference** (Docs Home, Quickstart, Migration, IDE Setup, Gherkin Reference)
* NuGet package downloads (Reqnroll package, last 6 weeks): **312K** (369K)
* NuGet package downloads compared to SpecFlow NuGet downloads (last 6 weeks): **12%** (12%)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by VS2022 extension: **67.3K** (74.4K)
* Top 3 countries of VS2022 extension usage: **United Kingdom, USA, Netherlands** (United Kingdom, USA, Netherlands)
* Reqnroll projects (.NET projects executed by Reqnroll): **5,932** (5,248)
* Reqnroll test executions: **2.07M** (2.16M)
* Reqnroll test executions per project per month: **avg: 350, median: 47** (avg: 412, median: 56)

### .NET Framework Usage

The list shows the .NET Framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. .NET 8.0: **79%** (82%)
2. .NET 9.0: **9%** (6%)
3. .NET 4.8: **5%** (4%)
4. .NET 6.0: **5%** (6%)
5. .NET 7.0: **2%** (2%)

Only frameworks with usage above 1% are shown.

### Test Execution Framework Usage

The list shows the test execution framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. NUnit: **40%** (40%)
2. xUnit: **32%** (32%)
3. MsTest: **28%** (28%)

### CI/CD Server Usage

The list shows the CI/CD server usage distribution of Reqnroll projects that were executed in CI.

1. Azure Pipelines: **71%** (71%)
2. GitHub Actions: **10%** (9%)
3. GitLab CI/CD: **10%** (10%)
4. Jenkins: **5%** (5%)
5. TeamCity: **3%** (4%)
6. Atlassian Bamboo: **1%** (1%)
7. BrowserStack: **1%** (0%)

### Sustainability

* Active paid [subscriptions](https://reqnroll.net/support/): **1** (1)
* [Sponsors](https://reqnroll.net/sponsorship/): **Gold: 1 (Spec Solutions), Silver: 1 (Info Support), Supporters: 4** (1/1/4)
* Yearly budget: **~$2200** ($2200)
* My time: **19hrs** (39hrs)
