---
layout: post
title: "Reqnroll v3.0 released with new reporting capabilities"
date: 2025-08-21
categories: News
tags: Release LivingDoc
image: assets/images/2025/bernd-klutsch-nE2HV5AUXFo-unsplash.webp
image_caption: "Photo by Bernd Klutsch on Unsplash"
author: gasparnagy
---

We have released Reqnroll V3 today. This release introduces a new reporting infrastructure called "formatters" and comes with two built-in formatters (HTML and Message), along with plenty of other improvements and fixes.

<!--more-->

## HTML report is here

I'm pretty sure this was the most awaited release so far in the 1.5 years of Reqnroll. When [SpecFlow was forked](2024-02-08-from-specflow-to-reqnroll-why-and-how.md), we took over all open-source components, but unfortunately the *SpecFlow+ LivingDoc Generator* was a closed-source asset, so we could not integrate it into Reqnroll. Many people used this reporting component, so we wanted to build a replacement right from the beginning. 

We knew it would be tough, but we still underestimated the effort needed. The actual coding started a year ago, and the core feature branch contained 478 commits and almost 14,000 lines of new code. This incredible work would not have been possible without our open source contributors who invested their free time, expertise, and most importantly, their enthusiasm for Reqnroll. Thank you all! 🙏 You rock! 🤘

## Nice, but I wanna try!

OK. Understood.

The good news is that the documentation has already been updated with the formatters, so make sure you check out the [Reqnroll formatters documentation page](https://docs.reqnroll.net/latest/reporting/reqnroll-formatters.html). 

Probably the simplest way to try it is by adding a `formatters` section to your `reqnroll.json` configuration file:

```
{
  "$schema": "https://schemas.reqnroll.net/reqnroll-config-latest.json",
  "formatters": {
    "html": {
      "outputFilePath": "bdd-report.html"
    }
  }
}
```

Once you are done with that, just run your tests and you will find the report in the output folder (e.g. `bin/Debug/net8.0`) of your project. Voila!

{% include figure.html url="/assets/images/2025/reqnroll_v3_html_report.webp" alt="HTML report generated by Reqnroll v3" description="HTML report generated by Reqnroll v3" %}

## TUnit support

With Reqnroll v3, you can also use the new [TUnit test framework](https://tunit.dev/), which is a modern testing framework for .NET built with performance in mind. To use it, you need to add the `Reqnroll.TUnit` package, similar to the other framework integrations.

## Check the changelog and the breaking changes

Please take a few minutes to check the [full changelog of v3](https://github.com/reqnroll/Reqnroll/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#v300---2025-08-21). There are a few breaking changes as well, but for most users the upgrade should be seamless.

## Your feedback counts

We worked a lot on the new release, but surely there are still some parts that need to be improved. If you find any problems, please report them to [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/reqnroll/Reqnroll/issues), or if you have an idea for further improvements or just a question, use our [discussion board](https://github.com/orgs/reqnroll/discussions).

📢 I encourage everyone to invite contributors for a coffee 🍵. That could help pay our hosting bills or even enable us to organize an in-person design workshop to better align our goals (and drink those coffees, of course. Maybe a beer 🍺 too...). [Become a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/reqnroll).