---
layout: post
title: "Monthly Stats: 2025 September - exploring new integrations: .NET 10, TUnit, xUnit3, reporting"
date: 2025-10-08
categories: News
tags: statistics transparency
image: assets/images/2025/stephen-dawson-qwtCeJ5cLYs-unsplash-1024.webp
image_caption: "Photo by Stephen Dawson on Unsplash"
author: gasparnagy
---

We believe transparency is important to build a trustworthy open-source community, so we regularly share our usage and sustainability statistics.

Below are some statistics we found interesting (in parentheses, you can see the figures for the previous month). If you are interested in any other figures, please let us know.

## Featured Topic of the Month

In September, we can see that the monthly stats have been restored to their original levels after the lower activity of August and have continued the increase we saw before.

The most interesting thing this month is probably how the new integration options have started to get used.

Although the number is still low, Reqnroll is already being used with the .NET 10 release candidate. The final version of .NET 10 will be released in November, and Reqnroll does not have any reported issues with it. That's good news.

In v3.0 and v3.1, we introduced integration with two new test execution frameworks: TUnit and xUnit v3. Their usage is still below 1%, but they are already visible in the statistics.

In the August report, we had just seen the first numbers related to the new reporting features of Reqnroll. This month, we already see bigger numbers. Almost 3% of all projects already use reporting. It's also good to see that the first 3rd party formatter tool, [Expressium](https://github.com/ExpressiumOSS/Expressium.LivingDoc), is already visible in the stats. (Expressium is a free, open-source project for generating living documentation.)

It's not related to the statistics, but it's worth noting that the [Available plugins](https://docs.reqnroll.net/latest/integrations/available-plugins.html) page in the documentation has been improved. If you are the author of a Reqnroll plugin, make sure you send a PR to have your plugin listed there as well.

## Detailed Statistics for September 2025

### Usage

* Website & Docs visitors: **10K** (8.1K)
* Website & Docs page views: **55K** (46K)
* Top 5 Docs pages: **Docs Home, Quickstart, Migration, Gherkin reference, IDE Setup** (Quickstart, Docs Home, Migration, Gherkin reference, IDE Setup)
* NuGet package downloads (Reqnroll package, last 6 weeks): **1.7M** (1.22M)
* NuGet package downloads compared to SpecFlow NuGet downloads (based on "per day average"): **71%** (69%)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by VS2022 extension: **404K** (340K)
* Number of Reqnroll projects loaded by Rider extension: **10K** (10K)
* Number of active VS2022 & Rider extension installations: **N/A*** (N/A*)
* Upgrades to the latest VS2022 extension: **N/A*** (N/A*)
* Top 3 countries (from VS2022 extension usage): **India, USA, United Kingdom** (USA, India, United Kingdom)
* Reqnroll projects (.NET projects executed by Reqnroll): **22K** (20K)
* Reqnroll test executions: **11.4M** (10.1M)
* Reqnroll test executions per project per month: **avg: 515, median: 53** (avg: 497, median: 53)
* Ratio of CI/CD executions: **45%** (44%)

Note: *There was no measurable information of VS extension installations, because the latest version was released more than 3 month ago.

### .NET Framework Usage

The list shows the .NET Framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. .NET 8.0: **68%** (70%)
2. .NET 9.0: **17%** (15%)
3. .NET 4.8: **9%** (10%)
4. .NET 6.0: **4%** (4%)
5. .NET 7.0: **1%** (1%)
6. .NET 10.0 RC: **0.2%** (n/a)

Only frameworks with usage above 1% are shown.

### Test Execution Framework Usage

The list shows the test execution framework usage distribution of Reqnroll projects.

1. NUnit: **45%** (46%)
2. xUnit: **30%** (29%)
3. MsTest: **24%** (25%)
4. TUnit: **0.3%** (0%)
4. xUnit v3: **0.1%** (n/a)

### CI/CD Server Usage

The list shows the CI/CD server usage distribution of Reqnroll projects that were executed in CI.

1. Azure Pipelines: **66%** (66%)
2. GitHub Actions: **10%** (10%)
3. Jenkins: **7%** (7%)
4. GitLab CI/CD: **6%** (7%)
5. TeamCity: **4%** (5%)
6. Atlassian Bamboo: **2%** (2%)
7. GitLab CI: **2%** (1%)
8. BrowserStack: **1%** (1%)
9. Bitbucket Pipelines: **1%** (1%)
10. Octopus Deploy: **1%** (1%)


### Formatters

The new reporting infrastructure (called [formatters](https://docs.reqnroll.net/latest/reporting/reqnroll-formatters.html)) has been introduced with the v3 release. There are the first usage stats.

* [HTML](https://docs.reqnroll.net/latest/reporting/reqnroll-formatters.html#html-formatter) reports generated: 61.7K / 452 projects (4.6K / 151)
* [Message](https://docs.reqnroll.net/latest/reporting/reqnroll-formatters.html#cucumber-messages-formatter) reports generated: 17.2K / 124 projects (1.1K / 41)
* [Expressium](https://github.com/ExpressiumOSS/Expressium.LivingDoc) reports generated: 0.6K / 15 projects (N/A)
* Ratio of projects used formatters: 2.7% (1%)

### Sustainability

* Active paid [subscriptions](https://reqnroll.net/support/): **3** (3)
* [Sponsors](https://reqnroll.net/sponsorship/): **Gold: 1 (Spec Solutions), Silver: 2 (Info Support, LambdaTest), Supporters: 4** (1/1/4)
* Yearly budget: **~$2800** ($2200)
* My time: **48hrs** (104hrs)

📢 I encourage everyone to invite contributors for a coffee 🍵. That could help pay our hosting bills or even enable us to organize an in-person design workshop to better align our goals (and drink those coffees, of course. Maybe a beer 🍺 too...). [Become a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/reqnroll).